Jonathan Jacobs
jonjacobs24@gmail.com
352-514-4133


To the Research and Analytics team, 


The power of health data lies in its communication. When I explore a data set, what’s at the top of my mind is: who are these insights most relevant to, and how can I present the data to them in a way that is legible, compelling, and actionable. I have a demonstrated ability to communicate dense technical information to non-technical audiences. This skill set in conjunction with my aptitude for learning, collaboration, and self-motivation is why I believe I’m a great candidate for the Data Science Product Owner & Translator position on the Research and Analytics team. 


As the Project Manager for Air Partners, an air quality advocacy organization, I led the effort to communicate environmental epidemiology data on ultra-fine particulate exposure  to 40,000 residents of East Boston, many of whom don’t speak English. I drew actionable insights from established epidemiology research groups at Tufts and environmental engineering research at Olin college, and I made those insights personally available to policy makers, community leaders, and citizens. Through relationship building and human-centered design, each group of stakeholders was able to access and understand the information they needed to make change. 


As the Project Lead for Remaking Education: Design, I wove educational psychology data — representing the experiences of over 5,000 students — into an immersive, hands on activity for 350 education administrators from all around the country. Through interviews, iteration, and an empathetic process, I communicated specific, relevant, and actionable insights to the attendees. 


To build and solidify my technical skill set, I’m  currently in Springboard’s Data Science Career Track, a program that offers 550+ hours of hands-on curriculum, with 1:1 industry expert mentor oversight, and completion of 2 in-depth capstone projects. I will master skills in Python, SQL, data analysis, data visualization, hypothesis testing, and machine learning.


Thank you for your time and please do not hesitate to reach me at jonjacobs24@gmail.com or 352-514-4133.